

Allow DESIRED_ to be helm parameterized
Allow default values for variables to be posted

optional=true, default=-23, alias=DESIRED_FOOBAR

bhv_cutrange - parameterize on ROC or CPA
bhv_cutrange - allow for basic shifting waypoint mode
bhv_cutrange - allow for interpolation
bhv_cutrange - allow for slowing interpolation
bhv_cutrange - allow for timeout from contact msg


June 2007 - Autonomatic NaN detection in the IvP Helm

(NaN is C++ terminology for not-a-number, a condition arising from
such actions as divide-by-zero.) We added algorithms to automatically
detect IvP objective functions erroneously produced with NAN coponent
weights during linear regression. Such conditions may occur from a
behavior author supplying an evaluation function producing NAN values
at certain sample points.  The IvP Helm method cannot prevent all
future behavior authors from making this error, but with this
modification, the IvP Helm detects such conditions and produces the
appropriate error output and safely relinquishes control of the
vehicle back to manual mode.


June - uProcessWatch - A tool for monitoring MOOS processes

The uProcessWatch tool monitors a specified set of processes running
on the vehicle for potential dropped processes. It publishes to the
MOOSDB in a single variable the overall health status of critical
processes. The uXMS tool can be used in conjunction with this process
to scope on this single variable to quickly check the health of the
autonomy system running on the vehicle.  The uProcessWatch tool was
written during and shortly after MINUS07 based on needs identified
during these exercises.  May 0107 - Nan detection


May - uXMS - A terminal-based MOOS Scope

uXMS is a scoping tool for the MOOS database that works in a 
terminal mode with support for very low bandwidth comms. Very useful
in comms situation between Shoreside/RV to an AUV. The existing
uMS written by P.Newman is GUI-based, very high bandwidth and not
able to scope on a specified subset of the DB. The uXMS tool was
written during and shortly after MINUS07 based on needs identified
during these exercises.



April 1207 - Helm decision variable generalization

The IvP Helm is generalized to make decisions and report over any
arbitrary set of decision variable rather than solely course, speed
and depth. This is to accommodate the helm's use in in joint work with
Oxford on land robotic platforms that are controlled over different
terms. 


April 2007 - Mandatory decision variables in the IvP Helm

With this modification, the helm can be configured to treat as an 
error condition (resulting in return to manual control) the case where
a helm decision does not include a component value for a particular
decision variable. For example a speed decision without choosing a
heading should generate a safety exception. All such settings can be
overridden in the helm configuration block by declaring a variable to
be optional.

